# Week 9 

## Topic: Flask

## Web Programming: 

* A simple Flask application might look like: 

```
from flask import Flask

app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route("/")
def index():
    return "hello, world"
```

* First, we'll import `Flask` from the `flask` library, which happens to use a capital letter for its main name. 
  * Then, we'll create an `app` variable by giving our file's name to the `Flask` variable. 
  * Next, we'll label a function for the `/` route, or URL with `@app.route`. The `@` symbol in Python is called a decorator, which applies one function to another. 
  * We'll call the function `index`, since it should respond to a request for `/`, the default page. And our function will just respond with a string for now. 

* This code will automatically return HTML with the `render_template` function, which finds a file given and returns its contents: 

```
from flask import Flask, render_template

app = Flask(__name__)


@app.route("/")
def index():
    return render_template("index.html")
```

* We'll need to create a `templates/` directory, and create an `index.html` file with some content.
  * Now, typing `flask run` will return that HTML file when we visit our server's URL.
* We'll pass in an argument to `render_template` in our controller code: 

```
from flask import Flask, render_template, request

app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route("/")
def index():
    return render_template("index.html", name=request.args.get("name", "world"))
```
  
  * It turns out that we can give `render_template` any named argument, like `name`, and it will substitute that in our template, or our HTML file placeholders. 
  * In `index.html`, we'll replace `hello, world` with `hello, ` to tell Flask to substitute the `name` variable: 
```
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>hello</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        hello, {{ name }}
    </body>
</html>
```

  * We can use the `request` variable from the Flask library to get a parameter from the HTTP request, in this case also `name`, and fall back default of `world` if one wasn't provided. 
  * Now, when we restart our server after making changes, and visit the default page with a URL like `/?name=David`, we'll see that same input returned to use in the HTML generated by our server. 
* We can presume that Google's search query, at `/search?=cats`, is also parsed by some code for the `q` parameter and passed along to some database to get all the results that are relevant. Those results are then used to generate the final HTML page. 

## Forms





